
            People will encunter dilema in life, and they do not know how to deal with the problems and struggle in the troubles. They will lose the right time to solve those issues, and make it to a scar in their hearts. I will advised methonds to solve them out.
            
           The dilemma drags people from their original life. When trapping in dilemma, people think about their dilemmas over and over again, which make them hard to study, work even sleep. Same as me, I got involved in dilemma situations. Here is one of my experiences that how I went through the problem. When I was at Grade 7, I was glad that I had a chance to study with my friend, Wade, in the same class. And we were friends since we were a child. Having same interests and hobbies and both of our parents are friends, we hang out for fun and do sports when we were free. we both think we knoweach other well, but after this experience I think myself was not qualified to be his friend. 
           
          That was a wonderful summer afternoon, blue sky and sunny out there. Wade and I were finished the English class and had a 15 minutes break to relax. When we still had 5 minutes left, I noticed that Wade’s looked nervous, and he kept looking around seems like the spy on the movie. I was sitting far away from him, so, he did not notice I was watching him. I saw Wade went close to one of our classmates desk and quickly dived his hand into the drawer and drew out something into his pocket, because the distance between he and I was far. I could not see it  clearly and I  did not take this action into my heart, thinking that it was trick. 
           
         Surprisingly, after we finished the break and had a Math class, a girl in our class was crying loudly. The teacher noticed that and he walked towards to her standing by her side and asked what was going on. The girl said “ during the break, I went to the washroom with my cellphone left inside my table, and when I came back, it just gone. I found inside my bag and the drawer so many times , but still couldn’t find it. I was so afraid my parents complain, because this was my new phone. I bought it a month ago. What should I do right now?” and the teacher reply “ Ok, kid, just calm yourself down, how about  let’s have class first. After the class I will find out what was going on with your cellphone? “ I felt shock , because I  saw Wade took something away from the girl’s drawer. I just felt my mind blank and couldn’t believe that it was my best friend who accompanies me when I was a young to do such a dirty thing! And at this moment I turn my head to Wade and hope that it wasn’t him to steal the cellphone. However, the truth is cruel, I saw Wade tightly use his right hand palm to cover something in his pocket. But this couldn’t conceal the phone, because the phone’s shade was exactly shown out.  I felt angry and inapprehensive. My situation just similar with the Michael in Bernhard Schlink’s novel ‘ The Reader’, when I read the novel I could feel that Michael’s not understand why Hanna don’t tell the judge that she is an illiterate who couldn’t read and write. Same as me, I also didn’t understand why Wade stole my classmate’s phone, and faced the same awkward situation as Michael. Michael just wondering should he just told the judge that Hanna is an illiteracy, which could help Hanna reduce the sentence even had the no need to go to the jail. So, I just kept asking myself that should I go to talk to our teacher about Wade’s behaviors, but I also thought that Wade is my best friend and a best friend should not betray each other and turn to his back to expose their secret. I felt struggle and couldn’t sleep at night and that feeling I would never forget, because it was a kind of pain and torture. I can sure that Michael has the same feeling as me when he doesn’t know how to figure out this problem.
            
         The other day, I went to school as usually, and I saw Wade said hi to me, but I pretended him as a stranger and ignore him, definitely, Wade felt something, and he just walk away. That day was the first time that I hadn’t talk to him, but I felt suck that day and I didn’t want to lose my friend in this way either. So, after school, I went back to my home and locked myself in, because I needed some personal space and time to composed my thought, and figure out how to get through this dilemma. 
         
        Eventually, I decided to ask my mom for help, just like Michael in ‘ The Reader’ to ask his father’s advise, and his father said “But with adults I see no justification for setting other people’s views of what is good for them above their own ideas of what is good for themselves.”  And my mother just like Michael’s father said you cant just told this thing to your teacher, because you think you should do, maybe sometime is not good for a kid. And mom kept talking that what you have down maybe will cause lasting mentally damage to your best friend more seriously it may running his future, but you also couldn’t keep this thing inside your heart and didn’t do anything to help your friend. Just like Michael’s father said” No, your problem has no appealing solution. Of course one must act if the situation as you describe it one of accrued or inherited responsibility. If one knows what is good for another person who in turn is blind to it, then one must try to open his eyes. One has to leave him the last word, but one must talk to him, to him and not to someone else behind his back.” My mom also suggested me to talk to Wade to let him realized that what he have done and she thought it’s my responsibility to guide my friend to a right way. But I just petrify at that moment like what Michael felt “Talk to Hanna? What would I say to her?”  
        
        After the conversation with my mom, I felt release, but confused at the same time, because I was considering which way was best for me to let Wade realize this issue. Fortunately, I got an ide finally that was I invited him to my home and watched a movie that I pick together. So, I made a phone call to Wade and asked if he could like to come to my home tonight and enjoyed a wonderful evening. That night, we see the movie and in the movie, the main character is a litter boy, and he broke vase in his aunt’s home, however, when his aunt asked him and his cousins who did that, non of them admit it, nut finally, after a series of thing, for example, his cousins were regarded of dishonest, so they felt sad every day and innocent. The little boy saw all of these, eventually, he confess to his aunt that it was him to break the vase, because he couldn’t bare his cousins were being misunderstand, and that was not their fault. Same as Michael in ‘The Reader’, he choose to read books and record it on the taps, and mail it to Hanna, and Hanna tried to learn how to read and write depending on the tap. Finally, Hanna mastered how to read and write and learned that what she had done to the Jew was totally wrong and it was a crime, because the books help her to grow up and realize the essence of the burning. And Hanna felt guilty and shame to the victims. Like the little boy, he learn what he had done was greatly hurt others and knew this behavior is wrong.
        
        Obviously, Wade knew what the movie wants to tell us, and he said “ Bro, thank you, I definitely know what you are trying to tell me. And these days, my conscience was suffering, because I saw how sad the girl was and what I have done is a kind of crime, which is totally wrong. At first, I was so attracted by the phone and I bet my parents t buy one for me, but they refuse to it thinking it will influence my study, so I got a improper mind and decided to steal the girl’s cellphone, but I will return the phone to her a few days later. However, since the moment I took the phone, I was already regret for it, and I try to put it back, but the girl came back suddenly, therefore, I couldn’t put it back in time and later she cried in class and the teacher knew this thing. And I just wondered whether I should confess to the teacher, it was you to help me to retake the courage to talk to the teacher about the phone, thanks again.” “No problem, never too late to turn back. We still friends!” I reply.
        
          The next day, when Wade got to school, he walked straight toward to teacher’s office and described the whole thing. The teacher didn’t blame Wade instead praise Wade is an honest kid and promised Wade that he will keep the secret for him. On the other hand, the teacher made a little white lie to the girl that he picked the cell phone on the hall.  And we have a happy ending!
